WHAT WE CARE ABOUT 265 
Not only does he care about following the particular course of 
action which he is constrained to follow. He also cares about caring 
about it. Therefore he guides himself away from being critically 
affected by anything - in the outside world or within himself - which 
might divert him or dissuade him either from following that course or 
from caring as much as he does about following it. He cannot bring 
himself to overcome the constraint to which he is subject because, in 
other words, he does not really want to do so. The predicament of the 
unwilling addict is that there is something which he really wants to 
do, but which he cannot do because of a force other than and superior 
to that of his own will. In the case of the person constrained by 
volitional necessity, there is also something which he cannot do but 
only because he does not really want to do it. 
The reason a person does not experience the force of volitional 
necessity as alien or as external to himself, then, is that it coincides 
with - and is, indeed, partly constituted by - desires which are not 
merely his own but with which he actively identifies himself. 
Moreover, the necessity is to a certain extent self-imposed. It is 
generated when someone requires himself to avoid being guided in 
what he does by any forces other than those by which he most deeply 
wants to be guided. In order to prevent himself from caring about 
anything as much as he cares about them, he suppresses or dis- 
sociates himself from whatever motives or desires he regards as 
inconsistent with the stability and effectiveness of his commitment. It 
is in this way that volitional necessity may have a liberating effect: 
when someone is tending to be distracted from caring about what he 
cares about most, the force of volitional necessity may constrain him 
to do what he really wants to do. 
Whatever the pertinence and the validity of these considerations, 
however, they do not explain how it is possible for a person to be 
constrained by a necessity which is imposed upon him only by 
himself. To be sure, people do often force themselves to act in certain 
ways - for instance, when they are strongly tempted to act otherwise. 
But the strenuous exertion of will power in cases of those kinds is 
fully voluntary. The agent can discontinue it whenever he likes. On 
the other hand, even if volitional necessity is self-imposed there must 
be some respect in which it is imposed or maintained involuntarily. 
The condition that it be self-imposed helps to account for the fact 
that it is liberating rather than coercive - i.e., the fact that it supports 

