272 HARRY FRANKFURT 
whom nothing is antecedently important - to love altogether freely 
and without conditions or restrictions of any kind. In any case, a 
capacity for wholly unconditioned love is by no means an essential 
constituent of our finite nature. 
What makes it more suitable, then, for a person to make one object 
rather than another important to himself? It seems that it must be the 
fact that it is possible for him to care about the one and not about the 
other, or to care about the one in a way which is more important to 
him than the way in which it is possible for him to care about the 
other. When a person makes something important to himself, accord- 
ingly, the situation resembles an instance of divine agape at least in a 
certain respect. The person does not care about the object because its 
worthiness commands that he do so. On the other hand, the worthi- 
ness of the activity of caring commands that he choose an object 
which he will be able to care about. 
Yale University 
NOTES 
1 We are also susceptible to being overcome by beauty and by grandeur; and we 
encounter similar, though perhaps not identical, experiences when we lose ourselves in 
the thrill of a moment or in work. These experiences also tend to be liberating. On the 
other hand, experiences of great fear or pain provide analogues to the selflessness of 
reason and of love in which the loss of self is not ordinarily construed as fulfilling or as 
liberating. It seems unlikely that this is merely because these experiences are less 
enjoyable than those of love and rationality, but it is unclear what does account for the 
difference. 
2 Although consistency does not require her to suppose this, she and others might 
suppose it anyhow on other grounds. Even if it is not morally obligatory for mothers to 
care deeply about their children, a mother who does not do so might still be open to 
criticism - not that her attitude violates a duty but, for instance, that it is "unnatural" 
or "shameful" and that she lacks important human qualities. 
3 One version of scepticism with regard to these matters is the view that there is really 
nothing worth caring about. Whatever the merits of this view, it is important not to 
confuse it with - nor to suppose that it entails - the more radical claim that nothing is 
of any importance to us. A person who cares about something thereby incurs certain 
costs, coonected with the effort which investing himself requires and with the vul- 
nerability to disappointment and to other losses which it imposes. In virtue of these 
costs, it is possible for something to be important to a person without being important 
enough for it to be worth his while to care about it. The view that nothing is worth 
caring about therefore entails only that nothing is of sufficient importance to make 
caring about it reasonable. 
4 Cf. Anders Nygren, Agape and Eros (New York, 1969), pp. 75-8l, 91-95. 

