4 Mortal questions 
usually averse to unconsciousness (so long as it does not entail a 
substantial cut in the total duration of waking life). 
If we are to make serise of the view that to die is bad, it must 
be on the ground that life is a good and death is the correspond- 
ing deprivation or los’, bad not because of any positive features 
but because of the desirability of what it removes. We must now 
turn to the serious difficulties which this hypothesis raises, 
difficulties about loss and privation in general, and about death 
in particular. 
Essentially, there are three types of problem. First, doubt may 
be raised whether anything can befbad for a man without being 
positively unpleasant to him: specifically, it may be doubted that 
there are any evils which consist merely in the deprivation or 
absence of possible goods, and which do not depend on some- 
one’s minding that deprivation. Second, there are special difficul- 
ties, in the case of death, about how the supposed misfortune is 
to be assigned to a subject at all. There is doubt both as to who its 
subject is, and as to when he undergoes it. So long as a person 
exists, he has not yet died, and once he has died, he no longer 
exists; so there seems to be no time when death, if it is a 
misfortune, can be ascribed to its unfortunate subject. The third type of difficulty concerns the asymmetry, mentioned above, 
between our attitudes to posthumous and prenatal nonexistence. 
How can the former be bad if the latter is not? 
It should be recognized that if these are valid objections to 
counting death as an evil, they will apply to many other 
supposed evils as well. The first type of objection is expressed in 
general form by the common remark that what you don’t know 
can’t hurt you. It means that even if a man is betrayed by his 
friends, ridiculed behind his back, and despised by people who 
treat him politely to his face, none of it can be counted as a 
misfortune for him so long as he does not suffer as a result. It 
means that a man is not injured if his wishes are ignored by the 
executor of his will, or if, after his death, the belief becomes 
current that all che literary works on which his fame rests were 
really written by his brother, who died in Mexico at the age of 
28. It seems to me worth asking what assumptions about good 
and evil lead to these drastic restrictions. 
All the questions have something to do with time. There 
certainly are goods and evils of a simple kind (including some Death 5 
pleasures and pains) which a person possesses at a given time 
simply in virtue of his condition at that ime. But this is not true 
of ali the things we regard as good or bad for a man. Often we 
need to know his history to tell whether something is a 
misfortune or not; this applies to ills like deterioration, depriva- 
tion, and damage. Sometimes his experiential state is relatively 
unimportant ~ as in the case of a man who wastes his life in the 
cheerful pursuit of a method of communicating with asparagus 
plants. Someone who holds that all goods and evils must be 
temporally assignable states of the person may of course try to 
bring difficult cases into line by pointing to the pleasure or pain 
that more complicated goods and evils cause. Loss, betrayal, 
deception, and ridicule are on this view bad because people 
suffer when they learn of them. But it shou!d be asked how our 
ideas of human value would have to be constituted to accom- 
modate these cases directly instead. One advantage of such an 
account might be that it would enable us to explain why the 
discovery of these misfortunes causes suffering — in a way that 
makes it reasonable. For the natural view is that the discovery of 
betrayal makes us unhappy because it is bad to be betrayed — not 
that betrayal is bad because its discovery makes us unhappy. 
It therefore seems to me worth exploring the position that 
most good and ill fortune has as its subject a person identified by 
his history and his possibilities, rather than merely by his 
categorical state of the moment — and that while this subject can 
be exactly located in a sequence of places and times, the same is 
not necessarily true of the goods and ills that befal} him.2 
These ideas can be illustrated by an example of deprivation 
whose severity approaches that of death. Suppose an intelligent 
person receives a brain injury that reduces him to the mental 
condition of a contented infant, and chat such desires as remain 
to him can be satisfied by a custodian, so that he is free from 
care. Such a development would be widely regarded as a severe 
misforcune, not only for his friends and relations, or for society, 
but also, and primarily, for the person himself. This does not 
mean that a contented infant is unfortunate. The intelligent adult 
who has been reduced to this condition is the subject of the 
misfortune. He is the one we pity, though of course he does not 
2 It is certainly not true in general of the things that can be said of him. For 
example, Abraham Lincoln was taller than Louis XIV. But when? 
 
