  8 Mortal questions 
know perfectly well what it would be for him to have had it instead of losing it, and there is no difficulty in identifying the loser. 
But we cannot say that the time prior to a man’s birth is time in which he would have lived had he been born not then but earlier. For aside from the brief margin permitted by premature labor, he could not have been born earlier: anyone born substan- tially earlier than he was would have been someone else. Therefore the time prior to his birth is not time in which his subsequent birth prevents him from living. His birth, when it occurs, does not entail the loss to him of any life whatever. The direction of time is crucial in assigning possibilities to people or other individuals. Distinct possible lives of a single Person can diverge from a common beginning, but they cannot converge to a common conclusion from diverse beginnings. (The latter would represent not a set of different possible lives of one individual, but a set of distinct possible individuals, whose lives have identical conclusions.) Given an identifiable indi. vidual, countless possibilities for his continued existence are imaginable, and we can clearly conceive of what it would be for him to go on existing indefinitely. However inevitable it is that this will not come about, its possibility is still that of the continuation of a good for him, if life is the good we take it to be.3 
> I confess to being troubled by the above argument. on the ground that it is too sophisticated to explain the simple difference between our attitudes to Prenatal and posthumous nonexistence. For this reason I suspect that something essential is omitted from the account of the badness of death by an analysis which treats it as a deprivation of possibilities. My suspicion is supported by the following suggestion of Robert Nozick. We could imagine discovering that people developed from individual Spores that had existed indefinitely far in advance of their birth. In this fantasy, birth never occurs naturally more than a hundred years before the permanent end of the spore’s existence. But then we discover a way to trigger the premature hatching of these Spores, and people are born who have thousands of years of active life before them. Given such a situation, it would be possible to imagine oneself having come into existence thousands of years previously. If we put aside the question whether this would really be the same person, even given the identity of the spore, then the consequence appears to be that a Person's birth at a given time could deprive hiny of many earlier years of possible life. Now while it would be cause for regret that one had been deprived of all those possible years of hfe by being born too fate, the feeling would differ from that which many people have about death. 1 conclude that something abouc the future Death 9 
We are left, therefore, with the question whether the nonreal- ization of this possibility is in every case a misfortune, or whether it depends on what can naturally be hoped for. This seems to me the most serious difficulty with the view that-death is always an evil. Even if we can dispose of the objections against admitting misfortune that is not experienced, or cannot be assigned to a definite time in the person’s life, we still have to set some limits on how possible a possibility must be for its nonrealization to be a misfortune (or good fortune, should the possibility be a bad one). The death of Keats at 24 is generally regarded as tragic; that of Tolstoy at 82 is not. Although they will both be dead for ever, Keats’ death deprived him of many years of life which were allowed to Tolstoy; so in a clear sense Keats’ loss was greater (though not in the sense standardly employed in mathematical comparison between infinite quan- tities). However, this does not prove that Tolstoy's loss was 
insignificant. Perhaps we record an objection only to evils which 
are gratuitously added to the inevitable; the fact that it is worse to die at 24 than at 82 does not imply that it is not a terrible thing to die at 82, or even at 806. The question is whether we can regard as a misfortune any limitation, like mortality, that is normal to the species. Blindness or near-blindness is not a 
misfortune for a mole, nor would it be for a man, if that were the 
natural condition of the human race. 
The trouble is that life familiarizes us with the goods of which death deprives us. We are already able to appreciate them, as a mole is not able to appreciate vision. If we put aside doubts about their status as goods and grant that their quantity is in part a function of their duration, the question remains whether death, 
no matter when it occurs, can be said to deprive its victim of what is in the relevant sense a possible continuation of life. 
The situation is an ambiguous one. Observed from without, 
human beings obviously have a natural lifespan and cannot live much longer than a hundred years. A man’s sense of his own 
  
prospect of permanent nothingness is not captured by the analysis in terms of denied possibilities. If so, then Lucretius’ argument still awaits an answer. I suspect that it requires 2 general treatment of the difference between past and future in our attitudes toward our own lives. Our attitudes toward past and future pain are very different, for example. Derek Parfit’s unpublished writings on this topic have revealed its difficulty to me. 
 
