266 HARRY FRANKFURT 
the person's autonomy rather than being opposed to or independent 
of his will. It cannot be the case, however, that the person who 
requires of himself that he avoid guiding himself in a certain way 
accomplishes the self-imposition of this requirement merely by per- 
forming a voluntary act. It must be an essential feature of volitional 
necessity that it is imposed upon a person involuntarily. Otherwise it 
will be impossible to account for the fact that the person cannot 
extricate himself from it merely at will - i.e., the fact that it is 
genuinely a kind of necessity. 
It may seem difficult to understand how volitional necessity can 
possibly be at the same time both self-imposed and imposed in- 
voluntarily, or how it is possible to avoid the conclusion that an agent 
who is constrained by volitional necessity must be simultaneously 
both active and passive with respect to the same force. Resolution of 
these difficulties lies in recognising that: (a) the fact that a person 
cares about something is a fact about his will, (b) a person's will need 
not be under his own voluntary control, and (c) his will may be no 
less truly his own when it is not by his own voluntary doing that he 
cares as he does. 
Thus volitional necessity may be both self-imposed in virtue of 
being imposed by the person's own will and, at the same time, 
imposed involuntarily in virtue of the fact that it is not by his own 
voluntary act that his will is what it is. Similarly, in such cases, 
involuntariness does not entail passivity. A person is active when it is 
by his own will that he does what he does, even when his will is not 
itself within the scope of his voluntary control. It appears, then, that 
unless a person cares about certain things regardless of whether or 
not he chooses to do so, he will not be susceptible to the liberation 
which volitional necessity can provide. 
5. The suggestion that a person may be in some sense liberated 
through acceding to a power which is not subject to his immediate 
voluntary control is among the most ancient and persistent themes of 
our moral and religious tradition. It must surely reflect some quite 
fundamental structural feature of our lives. This feature remains, 
however, relatively unexplored. As a consequence, we are unable to 
give satisfactorily thorough and perspicuous accounts of certain facts 
which are central to our culture and to our view of ourselves: in 
particular, that the two human capacities which we prize most highly 
are those for rationality and for love, and that these capacities are 

