WHAT WE CARE ABOUT 269 
often possible for him to affect them. For that reason, as well as 
because people are generally interested in knowing what to think of 
themselves, a person may care about what he cares about. This leads 
to questions concerning evaluation and justification. 
The fact that what a person cares about is a personal matter does 
not entail that anything goes. It may still be possible to distinguish 
between things that are worth caring about to one degree or another 
and things that are not. Accordingly, it may be useful to inquire into 
what makes something worth caring about - that is, what conditions 
must be satisfied if something is to be suitable or worthy as an ideal 
or as an object of love - and into how a person is to decide, from 
among the various things worth caring about, which to care about. 
Although people may justifiably care about different things, or care 
differently about the same things, this surely does not mean that their 
loves and their ideals are entirely unsusceptible to significant criticism 
of any sort or that no general analytical principles of discrimination 
can be found] 
People often do not care about certain things which are quite 
important to them. They may simply fail to recognise, after all, that 
those things have that importance. But if there is something that a 
person does care about, then it follows that it is important to him. 
This is not because caring somehow involves an infallible judgment 
concerning the importance of its object. Rather, it is because caring 
about something makes that thing important to the person who cares 
about it. 
It is necessarily the case, of course, that a person who cares about 
a certain thing is not cold-bloodedly indifferent to it. In other words, 
what happens to the thing must make a difference to a person who 
cares about it, and the difference it makes must itself be important to 
him. This naturally does not mean that he cares about it just because 
it affects him in important ways. On the contrary, it may well be that 
he is susceptible to being affected by it or on account of it only in 
virtue of the fact that he cares about it. 
This suggests that it is necessarily important to people what they 
care about. The fact that a person cares about a certain thing or about 
some person, or the fact that he does not care about them, makes an 
important difference to him. It means that he is, or that he is not, 
susceptible to being affected by various circumstances in ways which 
he considers important. Thus the question of what to care about 

