6 Mortal questions 
mind his condition ~ there is some doubt, in fact, whether he can 
be said to exist any longer. 
The view that such a man has suffered a misfortune is open to the same objections which have been raised in regard to death. He does not mind his condition. It is in fact the same condition he was in at the age of three months, except that he is bigger. If we did not pity him then, why pity him now; in any case, who is there to pity? The intelligent adult has disappeared, and for a creature like the one before us, happiness consists in a full 
stomach and a dry diaper. 
If these objections are invalid, i: must be because they rest ona 
mistaken assumption about the temporal relation between the subject of a misfortune and the circumstances which constitute it. If, instead of concentrating exclusively on the oversized baby before us, we consider the person he was, and the person he could 
be now, then his reduction to this state and the cancellation of his 
natural adult development constitute a perfectly intelligible 
catastrophe. 
This case should convince us that it is arbitrary to restrict the 
goods and evils that can befall a man to nonrelational properties ascribable to him at particular times. As it stands, that restriction excludes not only such cases of gross degeneration, but also a good deal of what is important about success and failure, and other features of a life that have the character of processes. ] believe we can go further, however. There are goods and evils 
which are irreducibly relational; they are features of the relations between a person, with spatial and temporal boundaries of the usual sort, and circumstances which may not coincide with him either in space or in time. A man’s life includes much that does not take place within the boundaries of his body and his mind, and what happens to him can include much that does not take place within the boundaries of his life. These boundaries are commonly crossed by the misfortunes of being deceived, or despised, or betrayed. (If this is correct, there is a simple account of what is wrong with breaking a deathbed promise. It is an injury to the dead man. For certain purposes it is possible to regard time as just another type of distance.). The case of mental degeneration shows us an evil that depends on a contrast between the reality and the possible alternatives. A man is the subject of good and evil as much because he has hopes which Death 7 
may or may not be fulfilled, or possibilities which may or may 
not be realized, as because of his capacity to suffer and enjoy. If 
death is an evil, it must be accounted for in these terms, and the 
impossibility of locating it within life should not trouble us. 
When a man dies we are left with his corpse, and while a 
corpse can suffer the kind of mishap that may occur to an article 
of furniture, it is not a suitable object for pity. The man, 
however, is. He has lost his life, and if he had not died, he would 
have continued to live it, and to possess whatever good there is 
in living. If we apply to death the account suggested for the case 
of dementia, we shall say that although the spatial and temporal 
locations of the individual who suffered the loss are clear 
enough, the misfortune itself cannot be so easily located. One 
must be content just to state that his life is over and there will 
never be any more of it. That facr, rather than his past or present 
condition, constitutes his misfortune, if it is one. Nevertheless if 
there is a loss, someone must suffer it, and he must have 
existence and specific spatial and temporal location even if the 
loss itself does not. The fact that Beethoven had no children may 
have been a cause of regret to him, or a sad thing for the world, 
but it cannot be described as a misfortune for the children that he 
never had. All of us, I believe, are fortunate to have been born. 
But unless good and ill can be assigned to an embryo, or even to 
an unconnected pair of gametes, it cannot be said that not to be 
born is a misfortune. (That is a factor to be considered in 
deciding whether abortion and contraception are akin to mur- 
der.) 
This approach also provides a solution to the problem of 
temporal asymmetry, pointed out by Lucretius. He observed 
that no one finds it disturbing to contemplate the eternity 
pteceding his own birth, and he took this to show that it must be 
irrational to fear death, since death is simply the mirror image of 
the prior abyss. That is not true, however, and the difference 
between the two explains why it is reasonable to regard them 
differently. It is true that both the time before a man’s birth and 
the time after his death are times when he does not exist. But the 
time after his death is time of which his death deprives him. It is 
time in which, had he not died then, he would be alive. 
Therefore any death entails the loss of some life that its victim 
would have led had he not died at that or any earlier point. We 
 
