270 HARRY FRANKFURT 
(construed as including the question of whether to care about any- 
thing) is one which must necessarily be important to him. 
It does not quite follow from this that it is necessarily worth a 
person's while to care about the question. The question may not be 
sufficiently important to him for that. What does follow, however, is 
that if anything is worth caring about, then it must be worth caring 
about what to care about. It could hardly be the case both that there 
is something so important to a person that it is worthwhile for him to 
care about it, but that it is not worthwhile for him to care about 
whether or not he cares about that thing. 
In any event, there are two distinct (albeit compatible) ways in 
which something may be important to a person. First, its importance 
to him may be due to considerations which are altogether independent 
of whether or not he cares about the thing in question. Second, the 
thing may become important to him just because he does care about 
it. Correspondingly, there are two distinct sorts of ground on which a 
person who thinks it worthwhile to care about a certain thing might 
attempt to justify his view. He might claim that the thing is in- 
dependently important to him and that it is worth caring about for this 
reason. Or he might maintain, without supposing that the thing is 
antecedently important to him at all, that he is justified in caring about 
it because caring about it is itself something which is important to 
him. 
People naturally want the things they care about to coincide, up to 
a point, with those that are independently or antecedently important 
to them. Thus a person often begins to care about something when he 
recognises its capacity to affect him in important ways, ceases to care 
about it when he discovers that it does not have that capacity, and 
criticises himself for caring too much or too little about things whose 
importance to himself he has misjudged. When the importance of a 
certain thing to a person is due to the very fact that he cares about it, 
however, that fact plainly cannot provide a useful measure of the 
extent to which his caring about the thing is justified. 
In such cases, the critical question cannot be whether the object is 
sufficiently important to the person to warrant his caring about it. It 
must instead be whether the person is justified in making the thing 
important to him by caring about it. Now the only way to justify 
doing this is in terms of the importance of the activity of caring as 
such. It is manifest that the varieties of being concerned or dedicated, 

