WHAT WE CARE ABOUT 263 
another. But that depends upon conditions which do not always 
prevail. It certainly cannot be assumed that what a person cares about 
is generally under his immediate voluntary control. 
4. There are, of course, wide variations in how strongly and how 
persistently people care about things. It is also possible to dis- 
criminate different ways of caring, which are not reducible in any 
obvious manner to differences of degree. The most notable of these 
are perhaps the several varieties of love. Another significant dis- 
tinction - which is related to but not identical with the one concerning 
whether or not caring can be initiated by an act of will - has to do 
with whether or not a person can help caring as he does. When a 
person cares about something, it may be entirely up to him both that 
he cares about it and that he cares about it as much as he does. In 
certain instances, however, the person is susceptible to a familiar but 
nonetheless somewhat obscure kind of necessity, in virtue of which his 
caring is not altogether under his own control. 
There are occasions when a person realises that what he cares 
about matters to him not merely so much, but in such a way, that it is 
impossible for him to forbear from a certain course of action. It was 
presumably on such an occasion, for example, that Luther made his 
famous declaration: "Here I stand; I can do no other." An encounter 
with necessity of this sort characteristically affects a person less by 
impelling him into a certain course of action than by somehow making 
it apparent to him that every apparent alternative to that course is 
unthinkable. Such encounters differ from situations in which a person 
finds that he is unable to forbear, whether or not he wants to do so, 
because he is being driven to act by some desire or by some 
compulsion which is too powerful for him to overcome. They also 
differ from situations in which it is clear to the person that he must 
reject the possibility of forbearing because he has such a good reason 
for rejecting it - for instance, because to forbear strikes him as too 
unappealing or too undesirable a course of action to pursue. 
On the other hand encounters with necessity of the sort in 
question are in certain respects similar to situations like these. They 
resemble those of the latter type - viz., the person cannot forbear 
because his reasons for not doing so are too good - in that the 
inability to forbear is not a simple matter of deficient capacity on the 
part of the agent. They resemble those of the former variety - viz., 
the person is driven by irresistible passion or the like - in that the 

