264 HARRY FRANKFURT 
agent experiences himself as having no choice but to accede to the 
force by which he is constrained even if he thinks it might be better 
not to do so. 
It is clear, of course, that the impossibility to which Luther 
referred was a matter neither of logical nor of causal necessity. After 
all, he knew well enough that he was in one sense quite able to do the 
very thing he said he could not do; that is, he had the capacity to do 
it. What he was unable to muster was not the power to forbear, but 
the will. I shall use the term "volitional necessity" to refer to 
constraint of the kind to which he declared he was subject. To the 
extent that such constraint actually does render it impossible for a 
person to act in any way other than as he acts, it renders it impossible 
by preventing him from making use of his own capacities. Perhaps 
there is a sense in which Luther, even if his declaration was true, 
might have been strong enough to overcome the force which obstruc- 
ted his pursuit of any course of action but the one he pursued. But he 
could not bring himself to overcome that force. 
A person who is subject to volitional necessity finds that he must 
act as he does. For this reason it may seem appropriate to regard 
situations which involve volitional necessity as providing instances of 
passivity. But the person in a situation of this kind generally does not 
construe the fact that he is subject to volitional necessity as entailing 
that he is passive at all. People are generally quite far from consider- 
ing that volitional necessity renders them helpless bystanders to their 
own behavior. Indeed they may even tend to regard it as actually 
enhancing both their autonomy and their strength of will. 
If a person who is constrained by volitional necessity is for that 
reason unable to pursue a certain course of action, the explanation is 
not that he is in any straightforward way too weak to overcome the 
constraint. That sort of explanation can account for the experience of 
an addict, who dissociates himself from the addiction constraining 
him but who is unsuccessful in his attempt to oppose his own energies 
to the impetus of his habit. A person who is constrained by volitional 
necessity, however, is in a situation which differs significantly from 
that one. Unlike the addict, he does not accede to the constraining 
force because he lacks sufficient strength of will to defeat it. He 
accedes to it because he is unwilling to oppose it and because, 
furthermore, his unwillingness is itself something which he is un- 
willing to alter. 

