10 Mortal questions 
experience, on the other hand, does not embody this idea of a 
natural limit. His existence defines for him an essentially open- 
ended possible future, containing the usual mixture of goods and 
evils that he has found so tolerable in the past. Having been 
gratuitously introduced to the world by a collection of natural, 
historical, and social accidents, he finds himself the subject of a 
life, with an indeterminate and not essentially limited future. 
Viewed in this way, death, no matter how inevitable, is an 
abrupt cancellation of indefinitely extensive possible goods. 
Normality seems to have nothing to do with it, for the fact that 
we will all inevitably die in a few score years cannot by itself 
imply that it would not be good to live longer. Suppose that we 
were all inevitably going to die in agony — physical agony lasting 
six months. Would inevitability make that prospect any less 
unpleasant? And why should it be different for a deprivation? If 
the normal lifespan were a thousand years, death at 80 would be 
a tragedy. As things are, it may just be a more widespread 
tragedy. If there is no limit to the amount of life that it would be 
good to have, then it may be that a bad end is in store for us all. 2   
The Absurd 
Most people feel on occasion that life is absurd, and some feel it 
vividly and continually. Yet the reasons usually offered in 
defense of this conviction are patently inadequate: they could not 
really explain why life is absurd. Why then do they provide a 
natural expression for the sense that it is? 
Consider some examples. It is often remarked that nothing we 
do now will matter in a million years. But if that is true, then by 
the same token, nothing that will be the case in a million years 
matters now. In particular, it does not matter now that in a 
million years nothing we do now will matter. Moreover, even if 
what we did now were going to matter in 2 million years, how 
could that keep our present concerns from being absurd? If their 
mattering now is not enough to accomplish that, how would it 
help if they mattered a million years from now? 
Whether what we do now will matter in a million years could 
make the crucial difference only if its mattering in a million years 
depended on its mattering, period. But then to deny that 
whatever happens now will matter in a million years is to beg 
the question against its mattering, period; for in that sense one 
cannot know that it will not matter in a million years whether 
(for example) someone now is happy or miserable, without 
knowing that it does not matter, period. 
What we say to convey the absurdity of our lives often has to 
do with space or time: we are tiny specks in the infinite vastness 
of the universe; our lives are mere instants even on a geological 
 
