268 HARRY FRANKFURT 
Now moral judgments are also impersonal, and in this respect their 
force differs fundamentally from that of volitional necessity. Even 
when volitional necessity arises in connection with actions which are 
required or forbidden by duty, it does not derive from the person's 
moral convictions as such but from the way in which he cares about 
certain things. If a mother who is tempted to abandon her child finds 
that she simply cannot do that, it is probably not because she knows 
(or even because she cares about) her duty. It is more likely because 
of how she cares about the child, and about herself as its mother, than 
because of any recognition on her part that abandoning the child 
would be morally wrong. Consistency therefore does not require her 
to suppose that the action which she cannot bring herself to perform 
must be found to be similarly impossible by every mother whose 
circumstances are similar to hers. 2 
In the same way, a person who finds that he cannot bring himself to 
compromise an ideal to which he has been dedicated, despite his 
anxiety concerning the costs of remaining loyal to it, probably is not 
being moved most immediately by objective moral considerations 
even if the ideal in question is of a distinctively moral variety. 
Suppose that someone's ideal is to be meticulously honest in conduc- 
ting his business affairs. Everyone is morally obliged, of course, to be 
honest; but it does not follow that anyone has a duty to pursue 
honesty as an ideal of his life - i.e., to accord to pursuing it the 
preemptive attention and concern which commitment to an ideal 
entails. A person's discovery that it is volitionally impossible for him 
to neglect one of his ideals is not to be equated, then, with an 
acknowledgment on his part of an ethical requirement. 
Especially with respect to those we love and with respect to our 
ideals, we are liable to be bound by necessities which have less to do 
with our adherence to the principles of morality than with integrity or 
consistency of a more personal kind. These necessities constrain us 
from betraying the things which we care about most and with which, 
accordingly, we are most closely identified. In a sense which a strictly 
ethical analysis cannot make clear, what they keep us from violating 
are not our duties or our obligations but ourselves. 
6. The formation of a person's will is most fundamentally a matter 
of his coming to care about certain things, and of his coming to care 
about some of them more than about others. Although these proces- 
ses may not be wholly under his voluntary control, it is nonetheless 

