WHAT WE CARE ABOUT 271 
and of loving, are important to us quite apart from any antecedent 
capacities for affecting us which what we care about may have. This 
is not particularly because caring about something makes us suscep- 
tible to certain additional gratifications and disappointments. It is 
primarily because it serves to connect us actively to our lives in ways 
which are creative of ourselves and which expose us to distinctive 
possibilities for necessity and for freedom. 
It would be a serious mistake to believe that the importance of an 
object to someone is not fully genuine unless it is independent of his 
caring about the object. Consider the fact that many of the people we 
care about most would not affect us in important ways if we did not 
care about them. This can hardly mean that they are not genuinely 
important to us. In certain cases, to be sure, it may appear that 
something does lack real importance to a person despite the fact that 
he cares about it. But if the importance of the object in such cases is 
not fully genuine, that is not because it derives from the fact that the 
person cares about the object. 
Suppose, for example, that what a person cares about is avoiding 
stepping on the cracks in the sidewalk. No doubt he is committing an 
error of some kind in caring about this. But his error is not that he 
cares about something which is not really important to him. Rather, 
his error consists in caring about, and thereby imbuing with genuine 
importance, something which is not worth caring about. The reason it 
is not worth caring about seems clear: it is not important to the 
person to make avoiding the cracks in the sidewalk important to 
himself. But we need to understand better than we do just why this is 
so - i.e., what conditions must be satisfied if it is to be important to us 
to make something important to us which would not otherwise have 
such importance. 
Even when the justification for caring about something rests upon 
the importance of the caring itself, rather than being derivative from 
the antecedent importance of its object, the choice of the object is not 
irrelevant or arbitrary. According to one theological doctrine, divine 
love is in fact bestowed without regard to the character or antecedent 
value of its objects. It is God's nature to love, on this view, and He 
therefore loves everything regardless of any considerations extrinsic 
to Himself. His love is entirely arbitrary and unmotivated - absolutely 
sovereign, and in no way conditioned by the worthiness of its 
objects. 4 Perhaps it is possible only for an omnipotent being - to 

