WHAT WE CARE ABOUT 267 
prized not only for their usefulness in enabling us to adapt to our 
natural and social environments but also because they are supposed 
to make available to us especially valuable experiences or states of 
fulfillment and of freedom. The idea that being rational and loving are 
ways of achieving freedom ought to puzzle us more than it does, 
given that both require a person to submit to something which is be- 
yond his voluntary control and which may be indifferent to his desires. 
When we accede to being moved by logic or by love, the feeling 
with which we do so is not ordinarily one of dispirited impotence. On 
the contrary, we characteristically experience in both cases - whether 
we are following reason or following our hearts - a sense of liberation 
and of enhancement. What accounts for this experience? It appears to 
have its source in the fact that when a person is responding to a 
perception of something as rational or as beloved, his relationship to 
it tends towards selflessness. His attention is not merely concentrated 
upon the object; it is somehow fixed or seized by the object. The 
object captivates him. He is guided by its characteristics rather than 
primarily by his own. Quite commonly, he feels that he is overcome - 
that his own direction of his thoughts and volitions has been super- 
seded. How are we to understand the paradox that a person may be 
enhanced and liberated through being seized, made captive, and 
overcome? Why is it that we find ourselves to be most fully realised, 
and consider that we are at our best, when - through reason or 
through love - we have lost or escaped from ourselves. ~ 
Rationality and love equally entail selflessness. They differ in that 
the former is also essentially impersonal. The substance of this 
difference between rationality and love is not that what a person loves 
depends largely upon his own particular characteristics, whereas 
those characteristics play no role in determining what he considers to 
be required or permitted by reason. The judgments a person makes 
concerning rationality are manifestly no less dependent than are any 
other occurrences in his life upon contingent features of his nature 
and of his circumstances. What renders these judgments impersonal 
is that the claims they make are not limited to the person who makes 
them; rather, it is implicit that anyone who disagrees with the claims 
must be mistaken. A declaration of love is a personal matter, on the 
other hand, because the person who makes it does not thereby 
commit himself to supposing that anyone who fails to love what he 
does has somehow gone wrong. 

